README.md, before:

# EMMMA-K-V3

# Introduction
The EMMMA-K is a MIDI controller for electronic music that uses touch pins for note keys and user interface. A tilt sensor is used to generate MIDI commands for effects such as pitch bend and mod wheel.

![Photo](images/EMMMA-K-V3.jpg)

The layout of the touch pins for note keys is modelled after the Kalimba (a.k.a. thumb piano) which is a modernized version of the MBira, an ancient african plucked instrument.

The history and evolution of the MBira and Kalimba is given on Wikipedia here:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mbira

A great place to see and hear what the Kalimba is all about is April Yang's YouTube channel:

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV0A2VeScCoxiMhsA2kiIKw

In January, 2020 I became interested in making an electronic version of the Kalimba because I wanted a keyboard for electronic music that wasn't piano based and also could be hand-held. In March of that year I started working on a proof-of-concept prototype which I called the EMMMA-K. A write-up of that project is on my website here:

https://www.rocketmanrc.com/emmma-k.html

As crude as that first prototype was it actually performed pretty well and so when the COVID-19 lockdown started I decided to spend the time on a second version that had a better shape and layout and would be easier to build. There is also a write-up of that project here:

https://www.rocketmanrc.com/emmma-k-v2.html

This version supported additional music scales in addition to the Kalimba's C Major scale and a user interface was provided to change scale, key and octave.

Fast forward to October 2022... After working on a number of other unrelated projects I started researching what microcontrollers could be used to replace the TeensyLCs I was using before that were no longer available due to the dreaded world wide semiconductor shortage. The primary requirement was touch pin performance meaning good sensitivity and low latency. I discovered that the new ESP32-S2 and ESP32-S3 from Espressif are amazing for this purpose and so the EMMMA-K-V3 was born.

Video:

https://vimeo.com/831693210/e15a553c1c

# History


# Installation

### Source

# Notes

### IMPORTANT:


# User Interface


# Credits

Commit message:

Added patchfile.py to patch the MIDI LIbrary to fix pitch bend and also updated the readme

README.md, after:

# EMMMA-K-V3

# Introduction
The EMMMA-K is a MIDI controller for electronic music that uses touch pins for note keys and user interface. A tilt sensor is used to generate MIDI commands for effects such as pitch bend and mod wheel.

![Photo](images/EMMMA-K-V3.jpg)

The layout of the touch pins for note keys is modelled after the Kalimba (a.k.a. thumb piano) which is a modernized version of the MBira, an ancient african plucked instrument.

The history and evolution of the MBira and Kalimba is given on Wikipedia here:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mbira

A great place to see and hear what the Kalimba is all about is April Yang's YouTube channel:

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV0A2VeScCoxiMhsA2kiIKw

In January, 2020 I became interested in making an electronic version of the Kalimba because I wanted a keyboard for electronic music that wasn't piano based and also could be hand-held. In March of that year I started working on a proof-of-concept prototype which I called the EMMMA-K. A write-up of that project is on my website here:

https://www.rocketmanrc.com/emmma-k.html

As crude as that first prototype was it actually performed pretty well and so when the COVID-19 lockdown started I decided to spend the time on a second version that had a better shape and layout and would be easier to build. There is also a write-up of that project here:

https://www.rocketmanrc.com/emmma-k-v2.html

This version supported additional music scales in addition to the Kalimba's C Major scale and a user interface was provided to change scale, key and octave.

Fast forward to October 2022... After working on a number of other unrelated projects I started researching what microcontrollers could be used to replace the TeensyLCs I was using before that were no longer available due to the dreaded world wide semiconductor shortage. The primary requirement was touch pin performance meaning good sensitivity and low latency. I discovered that the new ESP32-S2 and ESP32-S3 from Espressif are amazing for this purpose and so the EMMMA-K-V3 was born.

Video:

https://vimeo.com/831693210/e15a553c1c

# Features


- MIDI - USB, BLE, ESP-Now wireless to a USB MIDI hub and ESP-Now wireless to a Serial MIDI hub.
- ESP-Now wireless is ultra low latency (approximately 1.5 milliseconds).
- Touch pins are also low latency and very sensitive.

# System Design

### Source

# Hardware


# Firmware

### IMPORTANT:


# User Interface


# Credits
